.TH findproxyfile 1 "October 2004" "findproxyfile" "FINDPROXYFILE Manual"
.SH NAME
.B findproxyfile
\- returns full path to GSI Proxy file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B findproxyfile 
[--proxycache=PATH] [--delegation-id=ID] [--user-dn=DN] [--outsidecache]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B findproxyfile
returns full path to a GSI Proxy file, either in the proxy cache maintained
by the GridSite G-HTTPS and delegation portType functions, or in other
standard places.

If a User DN is given
.B findproxyfile 
uses the value of the 
.B --proxycache
argument, the GRST_PROXY_PATH or the
compile time default to detemine the location of the proxy cache directory.
The directory is searched for a proxy having the given User DN and 
Delegation ID. (If no Delegation ID is specificed, then the default value is
used.)

If
.B findproxyfile
does not find a proxy or if a User DN is not given, but
.B --outsidecache
was given, then the environment variable X509_USER_PROXY and the standard
location /tmp/x509up_uUID are searched as well.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "--proxycache=PATH"
Give the path of the proxy cache directory explicitly, overriding the
default and the GRST_PROXY_PATH environment variable if present.

.IP "--delegation-id=ID"
The optional delegation ID is search for in the proxy cache in addition to
the User DN. If absent, the default Delegation ID value is searched for.

.IP "--user-dn=DN"
The DN of the full user certificate associated with the proxy to be searched
for in the proxy cache. (This is not the DN of any proxy earlier in the
chain: it is a the DN of a certificate issued by a recognised CA.)

.IP "--outsidecache"
If a User DN is not given, or a proxy not found in the cache, then search
for a proxy using X509_USER_PROXY environment variable and file name of
form /tmp/x509up_uUID as well.

.SH RETURN VALUE
If a proxy is found, its full path is output on standard out.

.SH EXIT CODES
0 is returned on succcess. Non-zero otherwise.

.SH BUGS
In this version, no attempt is made to verify or validate the proxies.

.SH AUTHOR
Andrew McNab <Andrew.McNab@man.ac.uk>

findproxyfile is part of GridSite: http://www.gridsite.org/
