.TH GSEXEC 8 "October 2005" "gsexec" "GridSite Manual"
.SH NAME
.B gsexec 
\- Switch user before executing external programs

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
 
.BR gsexec 
[-V]
 
.SH "SUMMARY"

gsexec is used by the Apache HTTP Server to switch to another user before 
executing CGI programs\&. In order to achieve this, it must run as root\&. 
Since the HTTP daemon normally doesn't run as root, the gsexec executable 
needs the setuid bit set and must be owned by root\&. It should never be 
writable for any other person than root\&.
 
gsexec is based on Apache's suexec, and its behaviour is controlled with
the Apache configuration file directives 
.BR GridSiteExecMethod 
and 
.BR GridSiteUserGroup
added to Apache by 
.BR mod_gridsite(8)
Four execution methods are supported: nosetuid, suexec, X509DN and directory,
and these may be set on a per-directory basis within the Apache configuration
file.

.SH "NOSETUID METHOD"

This is the default behaviour, but can also be produced by giving
.BR "GridSiteExecMethod nosetuid"

CGI programs will then be executed without using gsexec, and will
run as the Unix user given by the User and Group Apache directives (normally
apache.apache on Red Hat derived systems.)

.SH "SUEXEC METHOD"

If
.BR "GridSiteExecMethod suexec"
is given for this virtual host or directory, then CGI programs will be 
executed using the user and group given by the
.BR "GridSiteUserGroup user group"
directive, which may also be set on a per-directory basis (unlike suexec's
.BR SuexecUserGroup 
which is per-server only.) The CGI program must either be owned by root,
the Apache user
and group specified at gsexec build-time (normally apache.apache) or by
the user and group given with the 
.BR GridSiteUserGroup
directive.

.SH "X509DN METHOD"

If
.BR "GridSiteExecMethod X509DN"
is given, then the CGI program runs as a pool user, detemined using lock
files in the exec mapping directory chosen as build time of gsexec.
The pool user is chosen according
to the client's full certificate X.509 DN (ie with any trailing GSI proxy
name components stripped off.) Subsequent requests by the same X.509
identity will be mapped to the same pool user. The CGI program must either be
owned by root, the Apache user
and group specified at gsexec build-time (normally apache.apache) or by
the pool user selected.

.SH "DIRECTORY METHOD"

If
.BR "GridSiteExecMethod directory"
is given, then the CGI program runs as a pool user chosen according
to the directory in which the CGI is located: all CGIs in that directory
run as the same pool user. The CGI program must either be
owned by root, the Apache user
and group specified at gsexec build-time (normally apache.apache) or by
the pool user selected.


.SH "EXECMAPDIR"

The default exec mapping directory is /var/www/execmapdir and this is fixed
when the gsexec executable is built. The exec mapping directory and all
of its lock files must be owned and only writable by root. To initialise the
lock files, create an empty lock file for each pool user, with the pool
username as the filename (eg user0001, user0002, ...) As the pool users are
leased to X.509 identities or directories, they will become hard linked to
lock files with the URL-encoded X.509 DN or full directory path. 

You can recycle pool users by removing the corresponding URL-encoded
hard link. 
.BR stat(1)
and
.BR "ls(1)"
with option 
.BR "-i"
can be used to print the inodes of lock files to match up the hard links.

.BR "However, you must ensure that all files and processes owned by the pool"
.BR "user are deleted before recycling!"

.SH "OPTIONS"
 
.TP
-V
If you are root, this option displays the compile options of gsexec\&. 
For security reasons all configuration options are changeable only at 
compile time\&.  
 
.SH "MORE INFORMATION"
For further information about the concepts and the security model of 
the original Apache suexec 
please refer to the suexec documentation: 

http://httpd\&.apache\&.org/docs-2\&.0/suexec\&.html

For examples using the gsexec extensions, please see the GridSite gsexec
page:

http://www.gridsite.org/wiki/Gsexec

.SH AUTHORS

Apache project, for original suexec

Andrew McNab <Andrew.McNab@manchester.ac.uk> for gsexec modifications.

gsexec is part of GridSite: http://www.gridsite.org/

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR httpd(8),
.BR suexec(8),
.BR mod_gridsite(8)
