.TH SLASHGRID 28 "September 2006" "slashgrid" "GridSite Manual"
.SH NAME
.B slashgrid 
\- Local and remote virtual filesystems using grid credentials

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
 
.BR slashgrid
[--debug] [--domain DOMAIN --groups GROUPS] [--local-root PATH --local-user USER] [--gridmapdir PATH] [--foreground]
 
.SH "SUMMARY"

SlashGrid provides remote virtual filesystems under /grid ("slash grid")
using HTTP/HTTPS as a transport protocol, and a local filesystem under
/grid/local which can give access to the DocumentRoot area of a webserver
on the same machine. In both local and remote cases, X.509, GSI Proxy
and VOMS credentials can be used as the basis of authorization decisions.

.SH "REMOTE HTTP(S) SERVERS"

SlashGrid maps URLs of the form https://d.n.s:port/path/file into virtual paths
of the form /grid/https/d.n.s:port/path/file (with /grid/http/ for
HTTP URLs.) 

SlashGrid attempts to obtain a user credential in the form of a GSI Proxy
file, either indicated by the variable X509_USER_PROXY in the environment
of the user's process, or a file of the form /tmp/x509up_uUID, where UID is
their Unix user ID. If none is found, an authenticated HTTPS request is made.

SlashGrid searches /etc/grid-security/certificates by default for CA root
files when verifying the host certificate of remote servers. This can be
overriden by users setting the variable X509_CERT_DIR in their environment.

.SH "SITECAST DOMAINS"

If the slashgrid daemon is started with the option --domain, then URLs 
with DNS component matching the given domain will be located using SiteCast
requests. SlashGrid will attempt to use UDP multicast queries to find a
transfer URL of a copy of the file requested. The option --groups must also
be used to specify a comma-separted list of one or more UDP multicast groups,
which will be searched in order.

The SiteCast area of the virtual filesystem is read-only (to prevent
corruption of replicas.)

.TP
--domain DOMAIN
SiteCast domain to use.
 
.TP
--groups GROUPS
SiteCast multicast groups to query.
 
.SH "LOCAL FILESYSTEM"

This filesystem is intended for use with GridSite/Apache webservers, which
control access via .gacl policy files in each directory hierarchy. SlashGrid
can interpret these files internally, and this allows other services, such
as GridFTP running in chroot mode, to share access to a common file store.

.TP
--local-root PATH
Top level directory in the underlying filesystem, which will be mapped to
/grid/local/
 
.TP
--local-user USER
Local user who will own the files created in the underlying filesystem.
 
.TP
--gridmapdir PATH
Private gridmapdir used for mapping of pool users back to X.509 DNs. For
example, after configuring GridFTP to use this gridmapdir.
 
.SH "OTHER OPTIONS"
 
.TP
--debug
Turn on debugging.
 
.SH "MORE INFORMATION"

http://www.gridsite.org/wiki/SlashGrid

.SH AUTHORS

Andrew McNab <Andrew.McNab@manchester.ac.uk> 

SlashGrid is part of GridSite: http://www.gridsite.org/

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR htcp(1),
.BR mod_gridsite(8)
